The Sierra Troubleshooting Guide

This document is intended to help Sierra customers who are experiencing 
trouble with our Software. Within these pages you will find all of our 
standard troubleshooting steps, Windows configuration information, boot 
disk instructions, and general sound card troubleshooting steps. The 
information contained in this document should help our customers resolve 
almost all common problems you can experience with our software.

The Sierra Troubleshooting Guide is broken up into four basic sections:

I.      General Troubleshooting Steps                   
	Some basic steps to start with

II.     Windows Configuration & Troubleshooting Configuring Windows for 
	Sierra games            
	a. Changing Video Drivers
	b. Setting up a Windows Swapfile
	c. Setting up your Midi Mapper
	d. Troubleshooting General Protection Faults
	
III.    General Sound Card Troubleshooting              
	Steps to resolve sound card conflicts

IV.     Boot disk instructions                          
	Steps to create a boot disk for nearly any configuration


 I. General Troubleshooting Techniques for DOS and Windows programs

NOTE: Before you begin troubleshooting, we strongly recommend you begin 
by using steps 1 through 3 of this section before doing anything else. 
This will help insure that the game is installed under an optimal environ-
ment and eliminate any basic problems from the beginning. Corrupted or bad 
installations can cause a variety of problems, and it is best to eliminate 
this possibility before you begin additional troubleshooting steps.

1.) Check for Corrupt Files or Other problems on the hard drive (All 
Programs): Before you do anything else, try running one of the following 
DOS Commands (listed below) on the hard drive where the game is installed. 
These commands will check for lost allocation units, corrupted files, 
cross-linked files, and other disk errors which can corrupt game files 
and/or the game's installation. These commands will also allow you to 
correct such errors if they find them. For more information on these 
commands, consult your DOS manual.

CHKDSK /F   <Enter>     (This command is for MS-DOS 6.0 or earlier)
SCANDISK    <Enter>     (This command is for MS-DOS 6.2 or higher)

If you DO find any errors at all, once you have corrected them with the 
commands above (or other disk utility programs like Norton Disk Doctor, 
PC Tools, or similar programs), proceed to Step 2, and then Step 3 below.

2.) Check hard disk space (All Programs): Run the CHKDSK command (regard-
less of the DOS version you are using) and check the available hard disk 
space ("Bytes Available on Disk"). Make sure you have sufficient space on 
the hard drive to install the game, and remember that our games generally 
double in size if installed to a compressed drive. Therefore, if you use 
any disk compression, and you wish to install a game that requires 10 MB  
of disk space, be sure you have AT LEAST 20 MB of space available, 
preferably 25 MB to allow a safe margin. After installation, it is best to 
have at least 3 MB of Disk space available (roughly 5 under a compressed 
environment).

3.) Re-install the program (All Programs):  Once you have tried the steps 
above, even if no problems are found, sometimes it is a good idea to try 
re-installing the game anyway. Delete all files and sub directories off the 
hard drive and reinstall from scratch.  It is highly recommended that you 
try booting up with a basic boot disk prior to re-installing the game. This 
will help insure there are no memory resident programs that may (for 
whatever the reason) interfere with the game's installation.

4.) Manually install the program (Some Programs): Try a Manual Installation 
if all else fails.  We have the instructions available on many of the newer 
product's README files, the Sierra BBS, and available by fax from Technical 
Support. However, not all products support or can be manually installed.

5.) Check Available Memory: 
	
A) DOS Programs: Different games require different types of memory in 
different amounts. If you ever receive any error messages from a DOS program 
like "Out of Hunk", "Out of Heap Space", or if it just reports an insuf-
ficient memory message, then you will probably need to free up more memory 
to play the game. You can check to see how much memory you have available 
and how it is configured by typing MEM (then press ENTER) at your DOS prompt. 
Make sure that your system's memory is configured so as to provide enough 
memory for the game to function properly. If it is not, or you have 
encountered any of the messages above, then we recommend creating a boot 
disk for the game.

B) Windows Programs: Most Sierra Widnows-based programs require a minimum 
of 2 or 4 MB of free memory to run under Windows. Go to the menu bar of the 
Program Manager and select HELP and then "About Program Manager". A screen 
will come up with memory information at the bottom. To maximize available 
Extended Memory (the type of memory that Windows uses, try making a Windows 
Boot Disk as outlined in the boot disk instructions included with this 
document. Also, try increasing your Swap File size (also called Virtual 
Memory). Instructions for this are included under "Configuring Windows for 
Sierra Games". Also make sure you disable any and all other memory-resident 
programs (screen savers, shell programs like Norton Desktop, virus checkers, 
etc.) prior to playing your game.

6.) Make a boot disk! Many of our newer DOS games have an automatic boot 
disk maker that you can access by running the program's INSTALL program and 
choose "Make a Bootable Floppy Disk" from the menu.  You will need a high 
density disk that fits in your A: drive.  The boot disk is worth a try even 
if there is enough memory! Using a boot disk creates a clean environment 
that helps in isolating potential conflicts, along with freeing up more 
memory. We also recommend using boot disks for Windows as well. We have a 
disk called BDALL which not only has a boot disk creator program, but also 
has a compilation of boot disk instructions for a variety of configurations 
(including Windows systems), in case you need to make a boot disk manually. 
You can download this disk via our BBS at 206-644-0112, or you can call 
Technical Support at 206-644-4343 and request the disk to be sent to you. 
We have also included instructions with this document so you can try 
creating a boot disk manually.

7.) Sound Card Problems: Sound card conflicts are one of the most common 
causes of lockups or other problems you can experience with games. See our 
section on Sound Card Troubleshooting for a suggestions regarding different 
types of sound card problems.

8. CD ROM Drivers: Generally, it is a good idea to make sure you have the 
latest available drivers for your CD ROM drive. You can obtain these from 
the CD ROM manufacturer. Additionally, it is a good idea to have the latest 
version of the Microsoft CD ROM Extensions (MSCDEX), which is currently 2.23. 
Sometimes older drivers can contribute to 'Drive Read Errors', 'xxxxx Not 
Found' type messages, 'CDR101' errors, or 'Drive not Ready' errors. You can 
check your MSCDEX version by typing MSCDEX and pressing ENTER at your C:\ 
prompt.

9. Mouse Drivers (DOS programs only): Sometimes, incompatible mouse drivers 
can cause graphics distortion, lock-ups and other problems.  If the game you 
are using does not require a mouse, try creating a boot disk and REM out the 
Mouse line in either the Config.sys or Autoexec.bat file on the boot disk.  
Otherwise, try using a different mouse driver or contacting the mouse 
manufacturer for more troubleshooting information.


II. Configuring Windows for Sierra Games

Sometimes you may need to make changes or adjust your Windows configuration 
in order to run your Sierra programs. This document contains steps for three 
of the most common Windows Setup issues that are encountered by our 
customers: Changing Video Drivers, Setting up a Swapfile, and Setting up the 
Midi Mapper.

IIa. Changing Video Drivers

Most Sierra and Brightstar Windows programs require Windows to be run using 
a 256 Color Display driver. Even though almost all video cards are capable 
of displaying 256 colors, for Windows to be able to display 256 colors it 
must be using a 256 color display driver. If you are running Windows with 
a 16 color driver and you try to run one of our games that requires 256 
color graphics, you will most likely receive an error message like "Your 
current Display Driver is not supported by this game." Additionally, 
running a high color driver, like 32,000 colors or more, can sometimes 
generate a similar error message, or cause graphics distortion. It is for 
this reason that we recommend running Windows with a 256 Color Driver for 
optimal results with Sierra Windows programs. Below is a step by step set 
of instructions for changing your video driver in Windows.

IMPORTANT NOTE: While we can tell you HOW to change your video driver, we 
cannot tell you the exact driver you need to choose because it is directly 
related to the specific brand and type of video card you have installed in 
your computer. When selecting a video driver, you must select a video driver 
specific to the video card installed in your computer. Most often, when you 
purchase a new video card, those drivers will be on floppy disks. If the 
video card came pre-installed with an entire computer system, the drivers 
should have been installed for you by the hardware manufacturer, or you 
should have received the drivers on floppy disks. If you choose an incorrect 
video driver when changing drivers, Windows will not boot. Should this happen 
to you, don't panic. You can restore your previous video driver by running 
the SETUP program from the WINDOWS directory, in DOS. (Just go to your 
C:\WINDOWS directory when you are in DOS and type SETUP, then press ENTER).

From within the PROGRAM MANAGER:

1.)     Double-click the MAIN program group icon.

2.)     Double-click the WINDOWS SETUP icon.

3.)     You will see a dialog box with "Display" "Keyboard", "Mouse", and 
	"Network".

4.)     On the menu bar, click on OPTIONS..., then go down to CHANGE SYSTEM 
	SETTINGS.

5.)     You will see another dialog box, similar to the previous one. Click  
	on the down arrow to the right of  "Display". You will get a list 
	of Video drivers available to you. You can use the scroll bar to 
	scroll up and down the list of drivers. Select a 256 color driver 
	appropriate for your video card. If you are installing the driver 
	from floppy disks or some other source, choose "Other Display", and 
	you will be instructed to type a path to the driver, or to insert 
	the disk with the drivers into your floppy drive.

If you have any problems changing your video driver and need more 
information, consult your Windows documentation, or contact the hardware 
or video card manufacturer. Additionally, if you do not seem to have the 
appropriate video drivers available to you, you will need to contact the 
hardware or video card manufacturer to obtain them.

IIb. Setting up a Windows Swapfile (Virtual Memory)

Virtual Memory, also referred to as a Swapfile, is essentially hard disk 
space that is used as memory. If you have a computer with 8 MB of RAM, and 
a 4 MB Swapfile, Windows treats that as 12 MB RAM. Sometimes if you do not 
have enough Extended memory available to run a Windows program, Windows will 
try to use Virtual memory instead. Some Sierra programs require a small 
amount of Virtual memory in order to run properly. 

If you are experiencing "Insufficient Memory" messages in Windows, then it 
would be a good idea to check your Virtual Memory. (We also recommend a 
Windows boot disk for these problems as well.) We typically recommend a 
Swapfile of around 4096k.

To check and set up your Virtual Memory (Swapfile):

From within the PROGRAM MANAGER:

1.)     Double-click the MAIN program group icon.

2.)     Double-click the 386 ENHANCED Icon.

3.)     You will see a dialog box. Click on the button "Virtual Memory". 
	This will bring up a second dialog box that will tell you the size, 
	type (permanent or temporary), and the drive your Swapfile is 
	located on. To change the drive that the Swapfile is located on, or 
	the Type of Swapfile being used, you can click on the arrow next to 
	those options to view your other choices. You will also see the 
	following information listed: Space Available (the amount of hard 
	drive space available for use as a Swapfile), Maximum Size (the 
	largest size of Swapfile available), Recommended Maximum Size (The 
	largest setting of Swapfile Windows will allow you to use), and New 
	Size (You can specify the size of the Swapfile by typing it into 
	this box).

4.)     IF you wish to change the size of your Swapfile, you can type the 
	size in the New Size box. Then click on OK. Windows will ask you if 
	you are sure you wish to make changes. Click on "Yes". You will then 
	need to restart Windows for your change to take effect.

Again, we typically recommend using a permanent Swapfile at least 4096k in 
size. A permanent swap file is best because it gives the fastest access 
time, but a Temporary Swap File doesn't use any hard drive space when you 
are not using Windows. After you make the swap file, you will be asked to 
restart Windows. Choose restart then start your Windows program. For further 
information on Swap Files, please consult your Windows documentation.

NOTE: You cannot use compressed disk space as a Swapfile. If you use disk 
compression, you can only establish a Swapfile on either the non-compressed 
host drive, or another non-compressed hard drive.

IIc. Setting Up Your Midi Mapper 

Since Sierra uses MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) music, in 
order to hear music in our games you must have your Midi Mapper set up 
correctly. Normally, this is done when you install your sound card software, 
but many sound cards will default to an incorrect Midi Setup.

The instructions below are for setting up the Midi Mapper for a standard FM 
sound card like a Soundblaster (regular, Pro and 16 varieties), Pro-Audio 
Spectrum, and other similar sound cards. These instructions will work for 
nearly all sound cards, though if you have a more advanced sound card like 
a Gravis Ultrasound, Sound cards using Wave table Synthesis, or a Roland 
MT32, RAP 10 or Sound Canvas, or any other advanced MIDI device, the set up 
instructions below will probably not provide the optimal Midi configuration 
to take advantage of more advanced hardware. Please contact the 
hardware/sound card manufacturer if you need additional help configuring 
your Midi Mapper for one of these more advanced sound modules.

NOTE: When you install a Sierra Windows game, make sure you choose BASE 
level if you are prompted for a "Base" or "Extended". (Or "Other sound 
cards" or whatever is appropriate). The Extended setting is strictly for 
users with Midi devices like the Roland MT32 installed in their systems. 
Even if the game you are playing and the sound card you are using support 
an "Extended" level Midi Setting, we recommend trying a Base level setting 
if you experience any problems.

From within PROGRAM MANAGER:

1.)     Double-Click your MAIN group. 

2.)     Double-click the CONTROL PANEL Icon.

3.)     Double-click the MIDI MAPPER icon. [NOTE: If you do not have this 
	icon, go back to the CONTROL PANEL, and Double-click the DRIVERS 
	section. Click on the "Add" button, and in the list of drivers 
	presented to you highlight the MIDI MAPPER selection and click on 
	OK. After the driver is installed, you will need to restart Windows 
	and start at step 1 above.]
	
4.)     You will get a dialog box. Click on the NEW Button. 

5.)     Type in a name (any name will do), then click on the OK Button.

6.)     Now you will get the MIDI SETUP screen. Find the Port Name Column, 
	and go down it until you reach the box for channel 13. Click on the 
	box, then click on the arrow and you should get a list of drivers.

7.)     Select the driver that has "FM Synthesis" in it. The name may vary 
	depending on the sound card you have, but some examples are 
	"Voyetra SuperSapi FM Driver", "Yamaha OPL-3 FM Synthesizer", 
	"SBP FM Synth".

8.)     Repeat step 7 for Channels 14, 15 and 16.

(NOTE: For an "Extended" Midi Setup, you would configure channels 1-10 and 
leave 11-16 as "None")

9.)     Click on OK, and when the computer asks you if you want to save the 
	setting, choose yes.

10.) Close the MIDI MAPPER.

Additional Note: Always make sure you have the proper Drivers installed for 
your sound card, as well as the following standard Windows drivers: Timer, 
Midi Mapper, [mci] CD Audio, [mci] Sound, and [mci] Midi Sequencer. If these 
are not present, you can add them following the steps below:

Again, from the CONTROL PANEL:

1.)     Double-click the DRIVERS icon.

2.)     You will get a list of drivers presented in a dialog box. Click on 
	the ADD button.

3.)     Select the driver you wish to add (Timer, Midi Mapper, 
	[MCI] CD Audio, Sound, or Midi Sequencer)

4.)     Click on OK. If you are asked to use the Current driver or a New 
	one, click on Current. You may be asked to insert a Windows disk 
	to install the driver from. Follow the instructions on screen. 

5.)     Once new drivers are installed, you will need to re-start Windows. 
	If you have any difficulty installing the drivers, or need additional 
	help with Windows, please contact Microsoft or your authorized 
	hardware manufacturer.  

Finally, it's usually a good idea to have the latest sound drivers available 
for your sound card. You can contact the Sound card manufacturer to obtain 
the most current drivers. 


IId. Sierra Troubleshooting Steps: General Protection Faults

General Protection Faults are errors that occur in Windows. They are 
typically the results of a memory conflict between one or more drivers or 
programs. One program may inadvertently overwrite another program's code, 
corrupting both programs and causing a General Protection Fault. Another 
type of error similar to a General Protection fault is a System Integrity 
Violation, which is basically a General Protection Fault caused by an MS-DOS 
program running Windows. 

However, Sierra does not support running our DOS programs through Windows, 
so this document will be focused on troubleshooting Windows General 
Protection Faults. If a Sierra DOS program causes any error messages or a 
System Integrity Violation, we recommend that you run that program in DOS.

Preparing to Troubleshoot 

Before you begin to troubleshooting General Protection Faults, you must 
have a basic boot disk for your system. At the end of this document are a 
complete set of boot disk instructions. We also have boot disk instructions 
available via FAX (document #2475), and a also have a disk called BDALL 
which contains a boot disk creator utility and a complete set of boot disk 
instructions for a variety of systems. This disk can be downloaded via our 
BBS at 206-644-0112, or you can contact us in Technical Support via FAX at 
206-644-7697 or phone at 206-644-4343 and have the disk sent to you.

In addition to the standard boot disk files, however, it is important to 
copy your DOS text editor (including Qbasic.EXE) to the boot disk as well. 
You can do this using the following commands, entered at the C:\ prompt:

COPY C:\DOS\EDIT.COM A: <ENTER>
COPY C:\DOS\QBASIC.EXE A:       <ENTER>

Finally, you will want a backup copy of your WIN.INI and SYSTEM.INI files 
on this disk. Copy them to the boot disk using the following commands:

COPY C:\WINDOWS\WIN.INI A:      <ENTER>
COPY C:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM.INI A:   <ENTER>

(NOTE: If your Windows directory is on another drive, use the letter of that 
drive instead of C:).

Troubleshooting Steps

1.)     First, correct any and all FAT table errors and lost allocation 
units by running SCANDISK or CHKDSK.  Refer to Section I. General Trouble-
shooting Techniques for DOS and Windows programs, and read the instructions 
for Step 1 if you need additional information.

2.)     Make sure your Windows System Resources are over 60 percent. You 
	can check this by going to the HELP menu in Program Manager, and 
	choosing About Program Manager. If resources are below 60 percent, 
	close any and all other Windows applications before continuing to 
	the next step.

3.)     Check the DOS version you are using. If you are using an OEM DOS 
	version, such as IBM DOS or Compaq DOS, those should only be run on 
	their respective OEM computer systems. (However, the Microsoft's 
	DOS 5 and DOS 6 upgrades will work on all machines.) 

4.)     Run Windows in Standard Mode (Not available in Windows for 
	Workgroups 3.11). You can run Windows in Standard mode by typing 
	WIN /S and then pressing ENTER. If the GP fault occurs in Standard 
	Mode and Enhanced Mode Windows, the problem could be a corrupted 
	file or conflict between Windows and a hardware device. 

5.)     Run Windows without using your WIN.INI file. The best way to do this 
	is to rename the WIN.INI file to something else. You can do this by 
	going to DOS, then to your WINDOWS directory. Then type:

REN WIN.INI WIN.OLD     <ENTER>

If running Windows without the WIN.INI file active corrects the problem, 
make sure the LOAD= and the RUN= lines in the [WINDOWS] section of the 
WIN.INI are blank, or insert a semi-colon (:) at the beginning of each line. 
(You can edit the WIN.INI with a text editor program like Windows Notepad.) 
This will prevent any other Windows software from loading. If this fails to 
correct the problem, Sierra recommends calling either MICROSOFT, or if you 
received your DOS/WINDOWS software with your computer system, you will need 
to contact the hardware manufacturer. They should be able to help you 
isolate the conflict between your WIN.INI file and your SIERRA program.

6.)     Reinstall your Sierra Windows program, or the program to which the 
	GPF seems to be specific. Sometimes corrupted files and drivers 
	(especially sound and/or video drivers in the case of Sierra 
	Software) can cause GP faults, and re-installing them may correct 
	the problem. Often times, updating to the latest available versions 
	of these drivers will correct problems as well. Contact the software 
	manufacturer if you need assistance re-installing and/or updating 
	drivers.

7.)     Eliminate any memory-resident software. Close any and all other 
	applications, make sure the STARTUP group is empty, and disable any 
	and all screen savers (including the standard Windows screen saver) 
	and shell replacement programs like Norton Desktop for Windows, 
	PC Tools, etc. Also, don't run Windows from a menu program like 
	DOS Shell or similar programs.

8.)     To check for a Video driver conflict, change your Video driver to 
	"VGA 3.0". A number of Video Drivers from third party vendors will 
	conflict with some Sierra Windows programs. IMPORTANT NOTE: If your 
	SIERRA program requires a 256 color driver, use Microsoft's "SVGA 
	(640 by 480, 256 color) driver if you have it available. If you do 
	not have this driver available, try using some other drivers for 
	your video card and see if they make a difference. You may try 
	contacting Microsoft to see if you can obtain the driver from them. 
	Refer to step 6 for more information. 

9.) Check for other possible conflicts with other, third-party software 
drivers. Edit your SYSTEM.INI file and temporarily comment out any and all 
third party drivers, e.g. Adobe Type Manager, third party printer drivers, 
Bitstream, etc. You can use Windows Notepad to edit the SYSTEM.INI file, 
and insert a semi-colon (;) at the beginning of each line that loads a third 
party driver. In your SYSTEM.INI file, the [BOOT] section should be set to a 
standard Windows default, which is listed below:

shell=progman.exe
system.drv=system.drv
keyboard.drv=keyboard.drv
mouse.drv=mouse.drv
display.drv=vga.drv             
comm.drv=comm.drv
sound.drv=mmsound.drv

10.) Eliminate potential conflicts in DOS by creating a basic boot disk 
that loads only those drivers necessary to start your system and Windows. 
A minimum boot configuration is listed below:

AUTOEXEC.BAT                            CONFIG.SYS

Path=c:\;c:\dos;c:\windows              Files=50                                
Prompt $p$g                             Buffers=30
Set temp=c:\temp                        Device=c:\dos\himem.sys 
					Stacks=9,256                                                                                                                    
					Device=c:\windows\ifshlp.sys  
					(This last line is only for WFW 3.11)

Depending on your particular systems, the files above may not be sufficient 
or meet the minimum requirements for your system to boot normally. If you 
need additional assistance creating a boot disk, continue on to Section IV. 
MS-DOS 5.0 and up Boot Disk Instructions.

If creating a boot disk seems to correct the problem, then your GP fault 
was caused by one of the memory resident DOS programs or drivers that your 
system loads. Try adding in, one at a time, any drivers REMed or excluded 
from your boot disk, then see if the problem occurs. Continue this step 
until you've isolated the specific driver that is causing the problem.

This list is by no means exhaustive, but it does represent the most common 
solutions to General Protection Faults encountered with Sierra Windows 
Software. For additional assistance, you may wish to contact Microsoft or 
your Hardware dealer (if Windows came pre-installed on your computer).



III. General Sound Card Troubleshooting Steps


Due to the tremendous number of sound cards and drivers available today, 
it can often be difficult getting a sound card and a game's sound driver 
to work together correctly. Unfortunately, while most sound cards claim 
to be 100% Sound Blaster compatible, the differences in the various methods 
of achieving this compatibility makes the claim itself dubious at best. 
Add to that the different methods of programming games and their sound 
drivers, it is not uncommon to encounter a conflict between a game's sound 
driver and your sound card.

Sierra has composed the following list of Sound Card troubleshooting steps 
to help resolve the most common problems experienced when trying to 
configure a sound card to work correctly with a game (and vice-versa). 
Please note that we cannot possibly know everything about your specific 
sound card, it's drivers, set up requirements, or the related software that 
is packaged with it. Therefore, if you have any questions as to how to 
change the settings of your sound card, re configure it, or otherwise 
manipulate it in a manner specific to the sound card itself or its software, 
please refer to your sound card's documentation or consult your sound card's 
manufacturer.

UNDERSTANDING DIFFERENT TYPES OF SOUND CARD SOUND

There are four main types of sound used by games and played through sound 
cards. These are briefly explained below to help you understand a little a
bout the different types of sound and how sound cards work.

Digital Sound: Digital Sound (also called Waveform Audio, Sampled Sound, 
or DAC Sound) is sound that is recorded just like you would record something 
on a tape recorder. Digital Sound can be virtually any type of sound. Some 
examples include speech, gunshots, footsteps, explosions, and most sound 
effects used in current games. Digital Sound is often described as '8 bit' 
or '16 bit', but in laymans terms all you really need to know is that 16 Bit 
Audio will sound sharper and clearer than 8 Bit Audio. Digitized Sound is 
often referred to as 'DAC' sound. DAC actually stands for "Digital to Audio 
Converter." Small DAC chips on your sound card convert recorded signals into 
audible sounds.

Midi Music: MIDI stands for Musical Instrument Digital Interface. MIDI 
technology allows a sequence of commands to call up sounds from a music 
synthesizer, which has significant advantages over digitized audio.  Each 
command instructs the synthesizer to play another note, or substitute a 
different sound, or adjust the synthesizers' audio output level, etc.  
These commands are only a few bytes in length, regardless of the duration 
of the sound,  so MIDI data is very compact.  In addition, since MIDI music 
isn't interpreted until playback, it is possible to modify a MIDI performance 
at any time and in any way imaginable with proper software tools. For MIDI 
songs to play properly on your MIDI system, it is important that your 
synthesizer be able to produce the sounds intended by the music author.  
Not all synthesizers can provide the same sound (or sound quality) in 
response to a single command via MIDI.  For this reason, most pre-recorded 
MIDI material is written to the General MIDI format found on the Roland 
RAP-10, SC-7, SCC-1, SC-55 and SC-300 as well as the TG-100 from Yamaha.  
This format has been endorsed and recommended for general purpose use by all 
MIDI manufactures as well as IBM, Microsoft and Apple.  As an alternative, 
song data is also available for the Roland MT-32, CM-32L and LAPC-1.

FM Synthesis: Most sound cards used today employ inexpensive FM Synthesizers 
(such as the Yamaha OPL3) to generate music. These chips synthesize musical 
instruments and are responsible for the music playback from your sound card. 

CD Audio: Sound that is recorded to and played from a CD is called. Playing 
CD Audio is the same as a playing a music CD. In order for sound cards to 
play CD Audio, a special CD Audio cable is required and must be connected 
from the CD ROM drive to the sound card. The sound card itself is not 
responsible for playing any music on the CD, however. It is just being used 
as a conduit, so to speak, so you can hear the music through the speakers 
connected to the sound card. You can also hear CD Audio by plugging in 
headphones to the headphone jack on your CD ROM drive.

TYPICAL SYMPTOMS OF SOUND CARD CONFLICTS AND RELATED PROBLEMS

1)      Lockups. Often times a DOS or Windows program  will lock up the 
	system if there is a sound card conflict. Often, the game will still 
	appear to be playing normally -- you will be able to move the mouse, 
	the background music will be playing, and you may even be able to 
	access the Save/Restore functions. However, the mouse pointer will 
	remain a "wait" cursor and all action in the game will effectively 
	stop. Other times, even the mouse pointer will freeze (A "hard" 
	lock up), and the sound card may become stuck on one continuous note. 
	Occasionally this might even force the system to re-boot itself.

2)      No music and/or Sound effects. Sometimes you may hear music, but no 
	speech or sound effects, or  vice-versa.

3)      Distorted or garbled music or sound effects, possibly with crackling 
	noises. 

4)      Repeating or "broken record" type sound. Sometimes this will manifest 
	itself in the form of one continuous, long musical note as well.

5)      DOS Error Messages:
	"Unable to initialize your audio hardware" (or something similar)
	"Unable to initialize your music hardware" (or something similar)
	"Invalid General Protection Fault" followed by lots of numbers and 
	code.
	
6)      WINDOWS Error Messages: 
	"Wave Out Open Error"
	"Panic: Use Capabilities Function..." 
	"Sound Device already in use by another application".

COMMON SOLUTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR SOUND CARD PROBLEMS AND CONFLICTS 
IN DOS OR WINDOWS

Listed below are suggestions and the most common solutions to resolving 
sound card conflicts. Some of these fixes are specific to DOS, some to 
Windows, and many will apply to either DOS or Windows. We recommend reading 
ALL of these steps, even if some of them may not seem to directly apply to 
the problem you may be experiencing with your game. 

(DOS/WINDOWS): First and foremost, make sure you choose the appropriate 
sound drivers or sound choices when you install the game !  Don't always 
trust the default values, because sometimes installation programs will 
incorrectly detect your hardware. Obviously, if you have a standard 
Soundblaster, Soundblaster Pro or Soundblaster 16,  and the game's 
installation program detects "Roland MT32", this isn't going to work. 
Sometimes choosing the correct driver can be tricky, but for most sound 
cards, selecting "Soundblaster/Ad-lib" for the music selection and 
"Soundblaster" for the Audio/Speech  selection (if there is an Audio/Speech 
selection -- not all games will have one) is the best place to start if you 
do not see a driver listed for your specific sound card. If you experience 
problems with these selections, try using some of the others -- it can't 
hurt. For Windows programs, if you are given a choice of selecting "Base" 
or "Extended", start with Base level.

(DOS/WINDOWS): Check the DMA and IRQ settings for your sound card. Generally 
speaking, we recommend using DMA 1 and IRQ 5, I/O address 220 for best 
results. However, as a general rule, our DOS games will support DMA channels 
1 and 3, and IRQ settings of 3, 5 and 7. If you are experiencing any of the 
previously mentioned problems, you might try changing the DMA and/or IRQ 
setting for your sound card and see if that works. Try our recommended 
settings if possible.

(DOS/WINDOWS): If you are not hearing any music or sound, try the steps 
above, but also try running the mixer program for your sound card and 
turning up your music and sound effects volume levels. If you are having 
the problem under DOS, run the DOS-based mixer, if the problem is under 
Windows, run the Windows-based mixer program. Sometimes not hearing music 
or sound effects is just due to the volume levels that the sound card is 
set to.

(DOS/WINDOWS) Some games use CD Audio (music/audio played directly off of 
the CD like a music album), and if you do not have a CD Audio cable 
connecting the sound card to the CD Rom drive, you won't be able to hear 
CD Audio. An easy way to test this is to plug in some headphones to the 
jack on the CD ROM drive and listen. If you hear sound through the head-
phones, then you are hearing CD Audio, but most likely you do not have a 
CD Audio cable connecting the drive to the sound card. You can get a 
CD Audio cable from some computer supply stores, or the CD Rom manufacturer 
may be able to sell one to you.

(DOS/WINDOWS): Running Dos-based games in Windows will generally not work, 
and produce either repeating sounds, no sound or music, or other error 
messages like "DMA Buffer Size is Too Small....". Run DOS based games in 
DOS for best results.

(DOS): Try new drivers ! For DOS based games, it never hurts to check with 
Sierra Technical Support or our BBS to see if there are any updated sound 
drivers for some games.We have enclosed a list of our current drivers 
available on the BBS. We can also mail these drivers out free of charge. 

(DOS) If you experience audio that 'stutters' or sounds a little 'broken 
up', there may be a DMA or an IRQ conflict. However, the problem may also 
be either insufficient audio buffering, or too much audio buffering. There 
is usually a setting in the MSCDEX line in the Autoexec.bat file, like 
/M:20, or something similar. Try changing this number to 8, 10, 12, or 
maybe 15. Also, try removing the /M: <number> entirely, or if it is not 
present, add it to the end of the MSCDEX line with a value (like /M:10). 
We recommend making changes only in the Autoexec.bat file on a boot disk.

(DOS) Make sure all the appropriate drivers and configuration lines 
specific to your sound card are being loaded, especially if you are using 
a boot disk created by the game. While boot disk creators can generally 
recognize common drivers and set them up in your Autoexec.bat and 
Config.sys files, drivers specific to particular sound cards will not be 
recognized, and the boot disk maker will most likely not set the 
Autoexec.bat and/or the Config.sys file on the boot disk up to load the 
drivers. You may need to add these drivers or settings manually. We have a 
list of common drivers typically loaded by various sound cards included in 
this document. However, for more specific information, consult your sound 
card's documentation or the manufacturer of the sound card.

(DOS) Sometimes if you are playing an older game on a faster computer 
(usually a 486 or higher), the computer may be to fast for the game to 
initialize the sound card, resulting in no sound or music. This is often 
accompanied by the message "Unable to initialize your Audio/Music Hardware", 
but not always. Try turning off your computer's TURBO switch (if it has one) 
and starting the game. Usually, this will let the game initialize the sound 
card, and you can turn the Turbo back on after the game has started. 
Consult the drivers list towards the end of this document for information 
about our updated driver 486SBDRV, which can correct this problem for a 
number of games.

(WINDOWS) If you are not hearing any music in your game, and you are playing 
under WINDOWS, make sure the Midi Mapper is set up correctly. First, make 
sure you install the game for "BASE" level Midi. Then use the following 
steps to correctly set up the Windows Midi Mapper for a standard sound card 
(Soundblaster, Pro-Audio Spectrum, etc.  1) Double-Click your Main group, 
then double-click the Control panel icon, then double-click the Midi Mapper 
icon. 2) Click on the NEW Button. Type in a name (any name will do), then 
click on the OK Button. 3) Now you will get the MIDI SETUP screen. Find the 
Port Name Column, and go down it until you reach the box for channel 13. 
Click on the box, then click on the arrow and you should get a list of 
drivers. 4) Select the driver that has "FM Synthesis" in it. The name may 
vary depending on the sound card you have, but some examples are "Voyetra 
SuperSapi FM Driver" and "Yamaha OPL-3 FM Synthesizer". 5) Do the same thing 
for Channels 14, 15 and 16. 6) Then click on OK, and when the computer asks 
you if you want to save the setting, choose yes. 7) Close the Midi Mapper 
and play the game. You should now get music in your game.

(WINDOWS) If you experience 'stuttering' or 'broken' audio with a Windows 
game, it may be caused by either insufficient or excessive audio buffering. 
Try this: There will usually be a line like "DMABufferSize=32" (or some 
other number) in the [386ENH] section of the SYSTEM.INI file, which is 
located in the Windows directory. Make a backup copy of the SYSTEM.INI file. 
Then open the SYSTEM.INI file with Windows NOTEPAD or any other text editing 
program, and find the DMABufferSize line. Try setting the value to 256. 
Other valid values are 128, 64, or 32. We do not recommend going above 256. 
If you cannot find a DMABufferSize line, add it to the end of the [386ENH] 
section. It should look like: DMABufferSize=256    (Case is important, so 
make sure it matches the example exactly.)

(WINDOWS): Always make sure you have the proper Drivers installed for your 
sound card, as well as the following standard Windows drivers: Timer, Midi 
Mapper, [mci] CD Audio, [mci] Sound, and [mci] Midi Sequencer. Also, it's 
usually a good idea to have the latest sound drivers available for your 
sound card. You can contact the Sound card manufacturer to obtain the most 
current drivers. 

(WINDOWS): Some Windows sound enhancement programs or screen savers can 
conflict with games if they are running at the same time. Often, they 
produce error messages like "Wave Out Open Error" or "Panic: Use 
Capabilities Function...". Some examples of programs that can produce these 
types of errors are Afterdark, Wired for Sound, Icon Hear-it or Icon Do-it, 
and Microsoft Windows Sound Bits. Try closing these programs or removing 
the drivers.

	SIERRA DRIVER UPDATES -- CURRENT AS OF 10/1/94

This list contains all the current sound driver updates and revisions 
currently available from Sierra. If you would like to obtain one of these, 
you can contact Technical Support at 1-206-644-4343 and request it, or you 
can download the driver via the Sierra BBS at 206-644-0112, Compuserve, or 
America On-Line.

Filename        Description
486SBDRV        Many older Sierra programs will produce an 
		"Unable to Initialize Audio/Music Hardware" message when 
		they are run are 486 systems. This updated Soundblaster 
		driver will correct this.
GUS32           This driver will allow Gravis Ultrasound users to use their 
		Gravis Ultrasound with Sierra's 32 bit DOS games, which 
		currently include Police Quest 4, Gabriel Knight, Quest for 
		Glory 4, and the CD ROM version of Leisure Suit Larry 6.
GUSDRV          This is a Gravis Ultrasound driver that will work with the 
		following games: The Dagger of Amon Ra (CD), Hoyle Classic 
		Card Games, King's Quest 6, Pepper's Adventures in Time, 
		Quest for Glory 3, Freddy Pharkas, Island of Dr. Brain, 
		Eco Quest 2, Police Quest 1, and Slater & Charlie go camping.
MGCD486         This is an updated Sound Blaster driver for Mixed Up Mother 
		Goose (CD-ROM). This will correct "Unable to Initialize 
		Music/Audio Hardware" messages when trying to run the game 
		under DOS on a 486 system.
SB16DRV         This is an updated SoundBlaster 16 driver. It will correct 
		sound problems with games that will only play one digitized 
		speech or sound sample, then stop playing them. This will 
		work for most games released after King's Quest 5 (11-15-90), 
		but not including King's Quest 5 (disk or CD version).
SBSCI32         This Sound Blaster driver is for Sierra's 32 bit games 
		(refer to the list under GUS32 for a list of these), and 
		will allow you to use an I/O address other than 220 for 
		your sound card. "ERROR 29" is the usual indicator that you 
		need this driver.
		
SOME TRICKS OF THE TRADE

We have included in this section some common solutions and work arounds to 
some problems our customers have experienced with specific sound cards.  

ENSONIQ SOUNDSCAPE

Common Problem: Varies; usually no sound or unusual sound 

Windows & DOS (general): First, make sure you have Ensoniq's latest Windows 
and DOS drivers. These have corrected a lot of problems experienced by 
Ensoniq users with our software. Ensoinq's number is given at the end of 
this document, and the Drivers are also available via Compuserve.

Front Page Sports Baseball & Football 95' Generally these games do not work 
with the Ensoniq Soundscape. Select No Sound.

Aces of the Pacific / Aces Over Europe: These games will generally work one 
of two ways: 1) Using 'MT32', in which case the music will be great but the 
DAC sound will sound odd; or 2) Using Soundblaster, the sound effects will 
sound OK but the music will sound strange. No other work arounds are known 
at this time.

Sierra's Quest Games (King's Quest, Police Quest, Space Quest, Quest for 
Glory) - All sound fine in Windows if there is a Window's version of the 
program. For the DOS versions, during installation for the MUSIC setting, 
you will want to choose GENERAL MIDI if it is listed or SOUNDBLASTER/ ADLIB 
OR COMPATIBLE. For the SPEECH/AUDIO/SOUND settings you will want to choose 
THUNDERBOARD or SOUNDBLASTER, one or the other should work properly. One 
exception is King's Quest 6 (Dos version): It will loose the sound when you 
are in the bookstore. Unfortunately, there is no work around other than 
playing through Windows.


SOUNDBLASTER 16

Common Problem: Lock ups. Most commonly, the game will appear stuck 
"thinking" about something.

Solution: This won't work for all games, but it will work for most of our 
more recent titles. Run the game's Installation program from the game's 
directory on your hard drive. Choose "Thunderboard" for your Audio instead 
of "Soundblaster". For older games, choose "Ad-lib" for your sound card 
choice.

Common Problem: No Sound or Audio, or messages like "Incorrect INT setting 
in System.INI file" when starting Windows.

Solution: This usually happens when using a boot disk that doesn't have the 
necessary configuration lines for the Soundblaster 16 sound card. You will 
need to add one or more of these lines to the boot disk manually. These 
lines usually look like:

SET SOUND=C:\SB16
SET BLASTER= A220 I5 D1
C:\SB16\SBCONFIG.EXE /S

There may also be a line containing SB16SET that we would recommend adding 
as well.


MULTIMEDIA PRO 16 (also Sound Galaxy sound cards)

Common Problem: Inaudible Speech or Sound FX (sometimes music too)

Solution: First, you need to run the game's Installation program and choose 
"Soundblaster" for Music and "Microsoft Windows Sound System" for Audio. 
Then you need to go to the MMP16P\UTILITY directory and type SETMODE /MSS 
(and press Enter). Then play your game, and you should get speech and sound 
effects. Just remember to run the SETMODE program before you run the game, 
and the speech and sound effects should work fine.

Alternately, sometimes we find it necessary to run the mixer program for the 
card also. If the SETMODE command doesn't seem to do the trick by itself, 
try typing:

SETMODE /MSS            (press Enter)
SG16MIX                 (press Enter)
SG16MIX /Q              (press Enter)

Then try running your game. If you still have troubles, contact Reveal. 
Their number is listed below.


MOZART & DIAMOND SONIC SOUND

Common Problem: Inaudible Speech or Sound FX (sometimes music too)

We find these cards, like the Sound Galaxy, also tend to work better when 
used to emulate a Windows Sound System sound card. The commands to enable 
this are as follows:

Mozart Sound Card:

CD\MOZART               (press Enter)
MZTMODE/WSS             (press Enter)

Diamond Sonic LX:

CD\DIAMOND              (press Enter)
SNDINIT/WSS             (press Enter)

As with the Sound Galaxy cards, you must remember to run these commands 
prior to starting the game.


GRAVIS ULTRASOUND & ULTRASOUND MAX (under Windows)

Common Problems: No music under Windows; often 'Divide by Zero' error 
messages can also occur.

Most Sierra products do not currently support patch caching for sound cards, 
which the GUS in its default configuration requires for MIDI output. To 
get MIDI music working with a GUS, follow the instructions in the GUS 
Windows Help file to put the GUS in non-patch caching mode.

The instructions in a nutshell (do the following steps once:)

1) Open the Control Panel, then open the MIDI mapper.

2) Select the setup labeled "Ultra???" where ??? represents the amount of 
   memory installed on your Ultrasound. (The GUS Max comes with 512K, the 
   GUS with 256K). Close the MIDI mapper and the Control Panel. If you don't 
   find a setup with the correct name (or a similar name -- different 
   revisions of the software named the setups differently), re-install your 
   GUS software.

Do the following steps each time before running a Sierra game:

1) In File Manager, go to your \ULTRASND\MIDI directory and double-click the 
   file labeled "load???.mid" where again ??? represents the amount of 
   memory on your GUS. (If you don't find the file there, look in other 
   subdirectories -- different GUS installation versions put the files in 
   different places.) This should launch the Media Player and play a 
   10-second MIDI file that will load all the patches your GUS needs.

(Advanced tip: by dragging the .MID file above into the Sierra group in the 
program manager, you can make an icon that will always be handy when you are 
about to run a Sierra program.)

2) If double-clicking the .MID file doesn't load Media Player, try running 
   Media Player directly (it's in the Accessories group of Program Manager), 
   then selecting "Open..." and opening the file. Then click the Play button.

3) Run the Sierra game.


DRIVER & CONFIGURATION INFORMATION

While we can't possibly know everything about all possible sound cards or 
their drivers, we have compiled a general list of drivers and configuration 
lines necessary to the proper setup of certain sound cards. This information 
may be especially useful if you have used one of our automatic boot disk 
maker programs. Boot disk makers can typically only detect the most common 
types of sound configuration lines and drivers, but not sound card specific 
drivers that many of today's newer cards require for proper configuration.

Below is a list of various sound cards and the necessary configuration 
and/or driver lines that must be present in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file and/or 
the CONFIG.SYS files. Most boot disk makers will be able to identify and 
correctly place the SET BLASTER= and SET SOUND= lines in the Autoexec.bat 
file on the boot disk, but any other lines you may need to add manually.

If you have any further questions or require additional information 
regarding the correct setup of your sound card, please consult the 
documentation for your sound card or contact the sound card manufacturer.

Sound Card:     Adlib
Autoexec.bat:   NONE
Config.sys:     NONE
Notes:          Can play music only

Sound Card:      Aria 16
Autoexec.bat:   SET ARIA=
		SET BLASTER=
		C:\DOS\SOUNDCLT.COM
Config.sys:     DEVICE=C:\ARIA\BIN\SOUNDCFG.SYS
		DEVICE=C:\ARIA\BIN\SNDSAVER.SYS
Notes:          Used in a number of IBM models

Sound Card:     Diamond LX
Autoexec.bat:   SET SONIC=
		C:\SONIC\SONIC /B/C*
		SET BLASTER=A220 I5 D1 T4
Config.sys:     NONE
Notes:          *Use the /C switch for Soundblaster mode, use the /B switch 
		for Microsoft Sound System Mode

Sound Card:     Ensoniq Soundscape
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET SNDSCAPE=
		C:\SNDSCAPE\SSINIT /I*
Config.sys:     NONE
Notes:          *Older drivers use /FM for Soundblaster mode, /GM for 
		General Midi mode.

Sound Card:     Forte 16
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET GALAXY=
		SET SOUND=
		C:\FORTE16\EMUTSR
Config.sys:     NONE
Notes:          Shipped mainly with Packard Bell computers.

Sound Card:     Gravis Ultrasound
Autoexec.bat:   SET ULTRASND=
		SET ULTRADIR=
		C:\ULTRASND\ULTRINIT
		SBOS.BAT
		SET BLASTER=
Config.sys:     NONE
Note:           The SBOS.BAT line must be loading to enable the card's 
		Sound Blaster emulation.

Sound Card:     ISP 16
Autoexec.bat:   C:\ISP16\ISPINIT /B/M*
Config.sys:     NONE
Note:           */B is used for Soundblaster mode, /M is used for a 
		Microsoft Sound System Mode

Sound Card:     Jazz 16
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
Config.sys:     DEVICE=C:\JAZZ\JAZZ.SYS D:* Q:*
Note:           THE D: DESIGNATES THE DMA CHANNEL.
		THE Q: DESIGNATES THE IRQ SEETTING.
		This card is basically identical to the Proaudio Spectrum 16. 
		Specific values and directories may be different on your 
		system than what is printed here.

Sound Card:     Mad 16
Autoexec.bat:   SET MAD16=
		SET BLASTER=
		C:\MAD16\M16INIT /B /M *
Config.sys:     NONE
Note:           */B is used for Soundblaster mode, /M is used for a 
		Microsoft Sound System Mode

Sound Card:     Magic S20
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET SOUND=
		C:\MAGICS20\SNDINIT /B /M*
Config.sys:     NONE
Note:           */B is used for Soundblaster mode, /M is used for a 
		Microsoft Sound System Mode

Sound Card:     Mozart Sound Card
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET SOUND=
		C:\MOZART\MTZVOL.EXE
Config.sys:     DEVICE=C:\MOZART\MZTINIT.SYS

Sound Card:     Orchid Gamewave
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET SOUND=
		C:\GW32\GW32.EXE
Config.sys:     NONE

Sound Card:     Pro Audio Spectrum 16
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
Config.sys:     DEVICE=C:\SPECTRUM\MVSOUND.SYS D:* Q:*
Note:           THE D: DESIGNATES THE DMA CHANNEL.
		THE Q: DESIGNATES THE IRQ SEETTING.
		This card is the same as a Jazz and sold/packaged with 
		systems under different names. Specific names, values and 
		directories may be different depending on the system.

Sound Card:     Pro Sonic Sound Card
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
Config.sys:     DEVICE=C:\PROSONIC\PROSYS.SYS P220 I5 D1 E1

Sound Card:     Sound-blaster 16
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET SOUND=
		C:\SB16\DIAGNOSE /S*
Config.sys:     DEVICE=C:\SB16\DRV\CTSB16.SYS /UNIT=0 /BLASTER=A:220 I:5 D:1 
		H:5
		DEVICE=C:\SB16\DRV\CTMM.SYS
Note:           THESE LINES ARE ONLY REQUIRED TO ENABLE THE SOUND CARD'S CD 
		ROM INTERFACE.
		* On some older Soundblaster 16 cards this may appear as 
		C:\sb16\sbconfig.exe /s
		There may be other lines such as SET MIDI and SB16SET in the 
		Autoexec.bat on some systems.

Sound Card:     Sound 16A
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET GALAXY=
		C:\AUDIO\SNDINIT.EXE /B
		SET SOUND16=
Config.sys:     NONE
Note:           Usually shipped with Packard Bell systems.

Sound Card:     Sound 144
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET GALAXY=
		SET SOUND=
Config.sys:     NONE
Note:           Usually shipped with Packard Bell Systems

Sound Card:     Vibra 16
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET SOUND=
		C:\VIBRA16\DIAGNOSE /S
		C:\VIBRA16\MIXERSET /P/Q
Config.sys:     DEVICE=C:\VIBRA16\DRV\VIBRA16.SYS
		DEVICE=C:\VIBRA16\DRV\CTMMSYS.SYS (TO ENABLE CD ROM INTERFACE)
Note:           As far as we have seen, the Vibra 16 is virtually identical 
		to the Soundblaster 16 sound card.

Sound Card:     Voyetra Sound
Autoexec.bat:   SET BLASTER=
		SET ISP16=
		C:\ISP16\ISPINIT /B
Config.sys:     NONE
Note:           This card appears to be the same as an ISP 16.


SOUND CARD MANUFACTURERS

Listed below are some of the more popular sound card manufacturers in case 
you need to contact them for more information, or help in configuring your 
sound card or using its accompanying utility software.


Ad-lib Inc.
Ad-lib, Ad-lib Gold
Tech Support:   800-463-9676

Aztech
Sound Galaxy, Sound Galaxy Pro 16
Tech Support:   800-886-8879

CompuAdd Multimedia
Compuadd Computer Systems with Compuadd sound Cards
Tech Support:   512-250-1489

Creative Labs
Gameblaster, Sound Blaster, Soundblaster Pro, Soundblaster 16, AWE 32
Tech Support:   405-742-6622
BBS:            405-742-6660

Ensoniq
Ensoniq Soundscape, Soundscape Daughterboard
Tech Support:   215-647-3930

Gravis 
Ultrasound, Ultrasound Max
Tech Support:   604-431-1807
BBS:            604-451-9358
FAX:            604-431-5927

Media Vision 
Thunderboard, Pro Audio Spectrum, Pro Audio Spectrum/Studio 16
Tech Support:   510-770-8600
BBS:            510-770-0968

Packard Bell 
Computers
Packard Bell typically packages one of the following sound cards with 
their systems: Sound 16A, Sound 144, Sound Galaxy, Multimedia Pro 16, 
Forte 16, ISP 16 sound cards.
Tech Support:   800-733-4411
BBS:            818-773-7207
FAX:            818-773-9831

Reveal
Multimedia Pro, Multimedia Pro 16. 
Reveal cards are bundled with a variety of systems, most frequently 
Packard Bell systems.
Tech Support:   818-704-6300
FAX:            818-340-2379



SIERRA ON-LINE 
MS-DOS 5.0 +
Boot Disk Instructions 

The following instructions have been prepared by Sierra's Technical 
Support Department as an added service to our customers.  
PLEASE NOTE: Sierra does not make any claims, guarantees, and/or 
PROMISES THAT THE FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS WILL WORK ON ANY AND/OR ALL 
COMPUTER SYSTEMS. 

These instructions are only for 386, 486 and Pentium computers using 
MS DOS 5.0 and above.

Step 1: Determining the type of boot disk you need:
	
The first thing you need to do before creating a boot disk is determine 
the requirements of the game and the system for which you are creating the 
boot disk. Consult the documentation for the game, the SRL label (the small 
label on the box listing the game's requirements), the game's documentation, 
and if necessary your system documentation to help determine the requirements 
necessary to make a functional boot disk for your system. Of key importance 
is the type of memory the game requires.  In short, there are three main 
types of Boot Disks you need to be aware of:

WINDOWS BOOT DISKS: Windows Boot disks should free up as much Extended (XMS) 
Memory as possible. Windows Boot disks do NOT need Expanded (EMS) Memory, 
nor do they need to be concerned with freeing up Conventional memory. 
Windows boot disks do not need to load mouse drivers because Windows has its 
own mouse driver. To summarize, you need to keep these things in mind when 
creating a Windows Boot Disk:

A Windows Boot Disk should free up as much Extended Memory as possible. To 
do this HIMEM.SYS must be loaded in the CONFIG.SYS file.  Windows is not 
generally concerned with the amount of free Conventional Memory.  Windows 
has its own mouse driver.  You do not need to load a DOS mouse driver.

STANDARD DOS BOOT DISKS: The purpose of these boot disks is to provide as 
much free Conventional Memory (out of 640k) as possible, and in many cases 
Expanded (EMS) Memory as well. Most older Sierra games fall into this 
category, as well as many more recent titles. (Some examples are given 
below). To summarize, a Standard Dos Boot Disk should:

Maximize the amount of free Conventional Memory available out of the base 
640k.  If necessary, configure the computer to provide Expanded Memory. 
To enable Expanded (EMS) Memory, and maximize Conventional Memory your boot 
disk must load HIMEM.SYS and EMM386.EXE.  Load all necessary drivers for 
sound cards, CD Rom drivers, mice, etc.

King's Quest 1-6        
Space Quest 1-5 
Police Quest 1-3        
Leisure Suit Larry 1-5
Quest for Glory 1-3     
Aces Over Europe*       
Aces of the Pacific*    
FPS: Football Pro (all)*        
Betrayal at Krondor*    
FPS: Baseball*          

*denotes a game requiring Expanded (EMS) Memory 


Note that there are exceptions to those listed above. For example, King's 
Quest 6 CD can be run in Windows, so you would want to make a Windows boot 
disk for it if you were going to install and run it under Windows.

(DOS) SCI 32 BOOT DISKS: SCI 32 games use programs called DOS Extenders, 
which handle all the memory management functions for the game. Because of 
this, SCI 32 Boot disks don't need to load ANY memory managers, such as 
HIMEM.SYS and EMM386.EXE. SCI 32 Boot disks also aren't concerned with 
freeing up conventional memory, like Standard Dos Boot Disks (q.v.) are. 
IMPORTANT NOTE: You only need to concern yourself with these guidelines if 
you intend to run your SCI 32 game in DOS. If you are going to run it in 
Windows (and it can be run in Windows), then you want to create a WINDOWS 
boot disk. 

To summarize, a DOS SCI 32 Boot disk should:

Not load any memory management, such as HIMEM.SYS, EMM386.EXE, QEMM, etc.
Load all necessary drivers for sound cards, CD Rom drivers, mice, etc.

Listed below are our currently released SCI 32 programs:

Police Quest 4              
Gabriel Knight           
Quest for Glory 4  
Leisure Suit Larry 6 (VESA CD version only)     
Inca II                       
Aces of the Deep
EarthSiege              
Battledrome

Once you know the general type of boot disk you need to make, consult the 
following list to help determine what individual drivers may be necessary 
for your boot disk.

Does your game or system require...

1.) CD ROM ?  Most games on CD will require CD ROM drivers to be loaded for 
    the game to play properly, though this is not always the case. Some CD 
    games can install to the hard drive and be played without the CD, such 
    as Aces Over Europe\Pacific and Betrayal at Krondor. 
    
2.) A Mouse ?  For many DOS-based games a mouse is recommended or even 
    required, and to allow the mouse to operate in a DOS game a Mouse 
    Driver, (a memory-resident program that tells DOS how to communicate 
    with your Mouse), must be loading from either the Autoexec.bat or 
    Config.sys file on the boot disk. Some examples include Sierra's 
    "Quest" titles like Police Quest, King's Quest, etc. 
    
3.) Disk Compression Drivers ? If you use STACKER, DBLSPACE, DRVSPACE, or 
    any other Disk Compression program, you will need to load a special 
    memory resident device driver for your compression program.

4.) Sound card drivers ? Some sound card's require special memory resident 
    Device Drivers to be loaded so DOS can use your sound card. Some popular 
    examples include the Pro Audio Spectrum 16 and the Gravis Ultrasound.         
    Once you have determined your requirements, proceed to STEP 2: 
    FORMATTING THE DISK.

IMPORTANT NOTE:  Please read the entire set of instructions prior to 
creating the boot disk.


STEP 2: FORMATTING THE DISK

PLEASE NOTE: It is necessary to format the disk even if the disk is already 
formatted.  The /S switch will transfer files to the boot disk which are 
necessary for the disk to work correctly.

To make a Boot Disk, you need to format a high density diskette in the A: 
drive.  Note: This will not work in the B: drive.  Type the command as 
follows:  

FORMAT  A:/S  <ENTER>

(Add a space and then the /F:360 or  /F:720 parameter to the end of the 
command before pressing ENTER if you are using a low density diskette) 
For more information on using the FORMAT command, consult your DOS manual.  

If the system responds with a "Bad command or file name" message after 
entering this command, then type:

PATH=C:\DOS  <ENTER>

Now retype the FORMAT command above.  If you still receive the same error, 
the MS DOS FORMAT command may not be on your system or it may have been 
renamed.  Programs such as PC Tools and Norton Disk Utilities can rename 
the format command to prevent accidental loss of data. 

Once you have completed the step above and the disk has been properly 
formatted, you will need to create the AUTOEXEC.BAT and CONFIG.SYS files 
for your Boot Disk. The easiest way to create these files is using the DOS 
"EDIT" Command, which brings up the DOS editor, a simple, easy to use text 
editing program that functions like a simple word-processor. All you need 
to do is type in the first line of the file you are creating, then press 
ENTER to go to the next line. You can move the cursor with a mouse or 
keyboard to navigate the menus in order to save or open files. For more 
information regarding the DOS editor program, consult your DOS documentation.

Go to your C:\ prompt. With floppy disk in the A drive, type:

A: <ENTER>

Now you can create the CONFIG.SYS or AUTOEXEC.BAT file by typing:

EDIT CONFIG.SYS <ENTER> 

OR

EDIT AUTOEXEC.BAT <ENTER>

If the system responds with a "Bad command or file name" message after 
entering this command , then type:

PATH=C:\DOS  <ENTER>

The DOS Editor will create a new file called CONFIG.SYS or AUTOEXEC.BAT, 
and you should get a blank blue screen where you can input the data to 
create and save the CONFIG.SYS for AUTOEXEC.BAT file. If you need help using 
the DOS editor or EDIT command, consult your DOS manual.

We will be creating the CONFIG.SYS file first. 

SUGGESTION

If possible, we strongly recommend making a printout of the AUTOEXEC.BAT 
and CONFIG.SYS on your hard drive (C:) to use as a reference while creating 
the boot disk. If you cannot make a print out, you can view the AUTOEXEC.BAT 
or CONFIG.SYS on your hard drive for reference at any time by going to your 
C:\ prompt and typing:

TYPE AUTOEXEC.BAT | MORE    <ENTER>

OR 

TYPE CONFIG.SYS | MORE    <ENTER>

NOTE: The | symbol is called a "pipe" command and is created by pressing 
<SHIFT> \ (backslash).

If you are working on creating the CONFIG.SYS or AUTOEXEC.BAT file, and 
decide you need to view the AUTOEXEC.BAT and/or CONFIG.SYS on your hard 
drive, be sure to SAVE your work prior to exiting the DOS EDITOR. You can 
do this either clicking the mouse on "FILE" and then "SAVE", or by pressing 
the ALT key, holding it down, pressing the F key, and then pressing the "X" 
key. The DOS Editor will ask you if you wish to save the file. Respond by 
pressing "Y" for "Yes".

STEP 3: Creating the CONFIG.SYS File

Go to your A: drive and type EDIT CONFIG.SYS and press ENTER, as outlined 
above. This will bring you into the DOS editor program so you can begin 
creating your boot disk files. Below are instructions as to what to type 
into your CONFIG.SYS (and later the AUTOEXEC.BAT file). Listed next to each 
line below are notes providing information about the line, and whether or 
not you may need that particular line for the game or system for which you 
are creating the boot disk. Additionally, make sure you type in each line 
exactly as it appears, in the order in which it appears. After you type in 
a line, go to the next line by pressing ENTER or cursoring down with the 
arrow keys. If you come to a line that does not apply to the game or system 
for which you are creating the boot disk, skip to the next line. Read the 
instructions thoroughly to make sure you create the best possible CONFIG.SYS 
and AUTOEXEC.BAT for your system and the game you wish to run. 


DEVICE=C:\DOS\HIMEM.SYS
This line is necessary for virtually all DOS (except SCI 32) boot disks, and 
absolutely REQUIRED for a Windows Boot disk. It allows access to Extended 
(XMS) memory and it is also necessary to establish Expanded (EMS) memory 
should your DOS game require it.

DEVICE=C:\DOS\EMM386.EXE  NOEMS
This line is necessary for Standard Dos Bootdisks. It allows access to upper 
memory and expanded memory. If the game you are creating the boot disk for 
requires Expanded Memory, use the second EMM386 line instead of this one. 
(you don't need both!). EMM386 is not needed for a Windows Boot disk, so 
ignore this line if you are making a boot disk for Windows.

DEVICE=C:\DOS\EMM386 RAM 1024
For Programs requiring 1 MB of Expanded (EMS) Memory. If the game requires 
more than 1 MB of EMS, substitute the amount of RAM necessary. For example, 
put 2048 instead of 1024 if the game reequires 2 MB of RAM, 3072 for 3 MB of 
Ram, etc.

DOS=HIGH,UMBFILES=30BUFFERS=20DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\SETVER.EXE
These four lines are necessary and/or suitable for any boot disk 
configuration.STACKS=9,256This line is only required for Windows boot disks. 
If the boot disk you are making is not for Windows or a Windows game, you do 
not need this line.If you use Disk Compression: The following section list 
some common lines you may need to add to your CONFIG.SYS file if you use 
disk compression software, like Doublespace, Drivespace, Stacker or 
Superstor. If you do not use any disk compression on your hard drive, skip 
to the next section.

DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\DBLSPACE.SYS /MOVE
For DOS 6.0 or 6.2 users using Doublespace you need this line.

DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\DRVSPACE.SYS /MOVE
For DOS 6.22 users using Drivespace, you need this line.

DEVICEHIGH=C:\STACKER\STACHIGH.SYS
For Stacker 3.1 AND MS-DOS 6.0 users, you need this line.

DEVICE=C:\STACKER\STACKER.COMDEVICE=C:\STACKER\SSWAP.COM
For Stacker 3.1 and MS-DOS 5.0 or below you need these lines.

DEVICEHIGH=SSTORDRV.SYS  DEVICE=DEVSWAP.COM
For Superstor users, you need these lines

For CD-ROM games: If your game requires CD ROM, the next line should be the 
line loading your CD ROM device driver. If you are unsure of what this line 
is (it will be different from system to system), proceed to the boxed 
section titled Reference Box A: "Locating your CD ROM Device Driver for the 
Config.sys file."  Make sure you save the work you've done so far by going 
to FILE and then SAVE from the menu bar in the DOS Editor. Once you have 
located the line loading your CD-ROM device driver, write it in the line 
below. Then begin at STEP 3 above and add the line you wrote down to the 
CONFIG.SYS file on our boot disk. Then proceed on.

Your CD ROM DEVICE DRIVER LINE: _______________________________________

For systems requiring a driver for their sound card to be loaded:  Some 
sound cards require specific drivers to be loaded in the CONFIG.SYS for 
the computer to be able to recognize and use them.   


DEVICEHIGH=C:\PROAUDIO\MVSOUND.SYS D:3 Q:7 

DEVICEHIGH=C:\ROAUDIO\MVSOUND.SYS D:3 Q:7 J:1

DEVICE=C:\PROAUDIO\MVSOUND.SYS D:3 Q:7 S:1,220,1,5
These three lines are different examples of the device line used for a 
Pro Audio Spectrum 16 sound card set to DMA 3 and IRQ 7. Note that the 
actual line may appear similar to one of these, but it may not be identical.

DEVICEHIGH=C:\JAZZ\JAZZ.SYS D:3 Q:7
This is for a Jazz 16 sound card (which is the same as a Pro Audio Spectrum 
16 actually) set to DMA 3 and IRQ 7.  For more specific information 
regarding your sound card's device driver (if it uses one), try consulting 
the Drivers & Configuration Information section of the Sound Card 
Troubleshooting steps (Section III). You might also wish to consult your 
sound card's documentation, the AUTOEXEC.BAT or CONFIG.SYS file on your 
C: drive, or your Sound Card Manufacturer.

For DOS-based games requiring a mouse, or if you wish to use a mouse with 
your DOS program: Some Mouse Drivers need to be loaded in the Config.sys 
file, but more often it will need to be in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file instead. 
If you are unsure of how the line loading your mouse driver should look, 
refer to REFERENCE BOX A:  "Locating your Mouse driver." (Before you go 
hunting for your Mouse Driver, make sure you save the work you've done so 
far by going to FILE and then SAVE from the menu bar in the DOS Editor. )

STEP 4: CREATING THE AUTOEXEC.BAT:

Once you have created the CONFIG.SYS file, you will need to make an 
AUTOEXEC.BAT file. (Again using the command EDIT AUTOEXEC.BAT at your A: 
prompt to bring up the DOS editor.

SET COMPSPEC=C:\DOS\COMMAND.COM
PROMPT $P$G
PATH C:\DOS
These three lines can and should be used on any and all boot disks.
For systems requiring a driver for their sound card to be loaded:  
Some sound cards require specific drivers to be loaded for the computer to 
be able to configure, recognize and/or use them. One popular example is the 
Soundblaster 16 sound card, which requires these two lines:

SET BLASTER=A220 Ix Dx  
A220 is the port address for your sound card. 
Another possible value is 240. 
The x will equal the IRQ and the DMA setting for your Soundblaster 16 card, 
respectively.  Typical settings are DMA 1 and IRQ 5, in which case the line 
would look like: SET BLASTER=A220 I5 D1. 

C:\SB16\SBCONFIG.EXE /S
This configures the Soundblaster 16 card. Another possible variation of this 
line (depending on the make of the Soundblaster 16 you might have) may 
appear as C:\SB16\DIAGNOSE /S. For more specific information regarding your 
sound card's device driver and/or configuration lines (if necessary), you 
will need to consult your sound card's documentation and/or manufacturer. 
We also recommend consulting the AUTOEXEC.BAT file on your C: drive.

If your game requires the use of a CD-ROM drive: The next line should load 
the "MSCDEX" line so your computer can recognize and use the CD ROM drive. 
If you are unsure of how this line should look, please refer to "Reference 
Box C: Locating MSCDEX." (Again, make sure you save the work you've done so 
far by going to FILE and then SAVE from the menu bar in the DOS Editor. )

Your MSCDEX Line: ______________________________________________________

For DOS-based games requiring a mouse, or if you wish to use a mouse with 
your DOS program: You MAY need to load a mouse driver in the CONFIG.SYS file, 
but more often it will need to be in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file instead. If you 
are unsure of how the line loading your mouse driver should look, refer to 
REFERENCE BOX A:  "Locating your Mouse driver." (Before you go hunting for 
your Mouse Driver, make sure you save the work you've done so far by going 
to FILE and then SAVE from the menu bar in the DOS Editor. )


REFERENCE BOX A

LOCATING THE CD ROM DEVICE DRIVER FOR THE CONFIG.SYS FILE

In order to recognize and access the CD ROM drive, your computer must load t
he correct device driver for your CD ROM drive. This driver is loaded in the 
CONFIG.SYS file. The best way to locate and identify the correct CD ROM 
device driver is to consult the CONFIG.SYS file on your hard drive. If you 
were able to print out your CONFIG.SYS as a reference, look for a line that 
is something like the example provided and write it in the space provided 
below (or just mark it on your print out.). If you do not have a print out 
of your CONFIG.SYS file, view it using the instructions provided in the 
"Suggestion" box at the beginning of this document.

Once you have the file on screen, look for the line that contains CD ROM 
device name which immediately follows the same "/D:" switch as the MSCDEX 
line in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  Using the example above, we would be looking 
for a line containing "MSCD001" or something very similar. This line should 
look something like one of the following lines.

DEVICE=C:\DRV\CDROMDRV.SYS  /D:MSCD001  /P:220  
DEVICEHIGH=C:\DRV\CDROMDRV.SYS  /D:MSCD001  /P:220  
DEVICEHIGH  /L:14652  =C:\DRV\CDROMDRV.SYS  /D:MSCD001  /P:220  

Your line may differ from the ones listed above. Please write down the 
entire line following the drive letter in the space provided below.  Be sure 
and include the full drive and path to your CD ROM device driver.  For 
example, any of the above lines should appear as follows:

DEVICEHIGH=C:\DRV\CDROMDRV.SYS  /D:MSCD001  /P:220                              

YOUR CD-ROM DEVICE DRIVER (in the CONFIG.SYS file):
DEVICEHIGH=                                                                                                                                                               
       


REFERENCE BOX B

LOCATING THE MOUSE DRIVER
	
If you plan to use a mouse with your game, it will be necessary to first 
load the mouse driver.  To do this, locate the mouse driver and copy it to 
the boot disk in your A: drive.  There are two types of mouse drivers 
available, MOUSE.SYS, which must be loaded in the CONFIG.SYS file and 
MOUSE.COM or MOUSE.EXE which must be loaded in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  
Note: You do not need to load both MOUSE.SYS and MOUSE.COM.  Locate the 
MOUSE.SYS or MOUSE.COM file.  Because the file MOUSE.SYS is usually smaller 
than MOUSE.COM we recommend that the MOUSE.SYS file be used in order to free 
more memory.

a) Locating the mouse drivers:
If you do not know where the MOUSE.SYS or MOUSE.COM files are located on 
your system, the command below should help in locating your mouse drivers.  
For users of MS DOS 5.0 or above, try typing the following commands at the 
C:\> prompt to help you locate your mouse drivers.

DIR  \MOUSE  /S  <ENTER>
DIR ?MOUSE /S   <ENTER>
DIR  ??MOUSE /S  <ENTER>

This command only works with MS-DOS 5.0 or above and will cause the system 
to search all sub-directories for a file called mouse.  If the system 
locates a file called mouse, it will display the path where the mouse files 
are located.  For example, if the MOUSE.SYS file is located in a C:\MOUSE> 
directory, the system will display:

Directory of C:\MOUSE
MOUSE    SYS    55160 03-10-92   3:10a
MOUSE    COM    56408 03-10-93   6:00a

If the system does not locate a mouse, your driver may have a different name 
or these files may not be currently installed on the system.  Some other 
common names for mouse drivers are IMOUSE, GMOUSE, and HPMOUSE.  Your mouse 
drivers may have been included on a floppy disk which came packaged along 
with your mouse.  For information on the proper name for your mouse, check 
the owners manual which came with your mouse.  Listed below are some fairly 
common lines that load mouse drivers. Consulting your mouse or system 
documentation, or your CONFIG.SYS or AUTOEXEC.BAT file on your C: drive, 
write the line loading your mouse driver on the line provided below:

(For the CONFIG.SYS file)
DEVICEHIGH=C:\WINDOWS\MOUSE.SYS
DEVICEHIGH=C:\MOUSE\MOUSE.SYS

(For the Autoexec.bat file)
LOADHIGH C:\MOUSE\MOUSE
LH C:\MSMOUSE\MOUSE
		
YOUR MOUSE DRIVER: _______________________________________________



REFERENCE BOX C

LOCATING MSCDEX

MSCDEX is the Microsoft extension for CD ROM drives.  It must be loaded in 
order for your CD ROM drive to operate.  The following steps should assist 
you in locating this file on your system To locate MSCDEX, at the C:\ 
prompt, view your AUTOEXEC.BAT file (see instructions at the beginning of 
this document if you do not know how to do this).

C:\DOS\MSCDEX  /D:MSCD001
LH  C:\DOS\MSCDEX  /D:MSCD001
LOADHIGH  /L:14429  \DOS\MSCDEX  /D:MSCD001

Your MSCDEX line may differ from the ones listed above.  Please write down
the entire line following the drive letter in the space provided below.  
Be sure and include the full drive and path to your MSCDEX file.  For 
example, any of the above lines could appear as follows:

LH  C:\DOS\MSCDEX  /D:MSCD001                                                           
	
Your MSCDEX line: _____________________________________________________________

A SAMPLE CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT file for a STANDARD DOS BOOT DISK

Below are three basic examples of an Autoexec.bat and a Config.sys file. 
These configurations are intended only as examples, not how your files 
should read. The boot disk configurations below were created for a system 
running DOS 6.0 and Windows 3.1, Additionally, our fictitious computer that 
we are creating the bootdisk for has a CD ROM drive, a Soundblaster 16 sound 
card, and a hard drive that is compressed via DOUBLESPACE. 

Our first example is for a fictitious game called Banana Quest that requires 
570k of free Conventional Memory, 1024k (1 MB) of Expanded (EMS) Memory, a 
CD ROM drive, and a mouse driver.

CONFIG.SYS File:

DEVICE =C:\DOS\HIMEM.SYS
DEVICE=C:\DOS\EMM386.EXE RAM 1024
DOS=HIGH, UMB
FILES=30
BUFFERS=20
DEVICEHIGH=C:\DOS\DBLESPACE.SYS /MOVE
DEVICEHIGH=C:\SB16\DRV\SBCD.SYS /D:MSCD001

AUTOEXEC.BAT File:
SET COMSPEC=C:\COMMAND.COM  
SET SOUND=C:\SB16
SET BLASTER= A220 I5 D1
C:\SB16\SBCONFIG.EXE /S
PROMPT  $P$G  
PATH=C:\DOS
LH C:\DOS\MSCDEX /D:MSCD001
LH C:\MOUSE\MOUSE.COM

A SAMPLE CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT file for a WINDOWS BOOT DISK
Let's pretend Banana Quest (used in the example above) can also be run under 
Windows.  A Windows boot disk for it could look like this:

CONFIG.SYS File:

DEVICE=C:\DOS\HIMEM.SYS
DOS=HIGH, UMB
FILES=30
BUFFERS=20
DEVICE=C:\DOS\DBLESPACE.SYS /MOVE
DEVICE=C:\SB16\DRV\SBCD.SYS /D:MSCD001

AUTOEXEC.BAT File:
SET COMSPEC=C:\COMMAND.COM  
SET SOUND=C:\SB16
SET BLASTER= A220 I5 D1
C:\SB16\SBCONFIG.EXE /S
PROMPT  $P$G  
PATH=C:\DOS
C:\DOS\MSCDEX /D:MSCD001

A SAMPLE CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT file for a DOS SCI 32 BOOT DISK
Now let's pretend Banana Quest is actually an SCI 32 game, and we want to 
run it under DOS. Now our boot disk might look like this:

CONFIG.SYS File:

FILES=30
BUFFERS=20
DEVICE=C:\DOS\DBLESPACE.SYS /MOVE
DEVICE=C:\SB16\DRV\SBCD.SYS /D:MSCD001

AUTOEXEC.BAT File:
SET COMSPEC=C:\COMMAND.COM  
SET SOUND=C:\SB16
SET BLASTER= A220 I5 D1
C:\SB16\SBCONFIG.EXE /S
PROMPT $P$G  
PATH=C:\DOS
C:\DOS\MSCDEX /D:MSCD001
C:\MOUSE\MOUSE

Take some time to examine the different types of boot disks and note the 
differences in how they were made. Using these instructions will help you 
create a similar boot disk for your Sierra Game. Remember, however, that a 
proper boot disk's Autoexec.bat and Config.sys files not only depend upon 
the game for which you are creating them, but the computer system the game 
is being run on. We cannot account for each and every sound driver, mouse 
driver, CD ROM driver, etc., that is on a specific computer system. 
Hopefully, however, these instructions will help you create the proper boot 
disk for your computer system and your game, and give you a little 
understanding about the different types of  boot disks and how they 
configure your memory.

