        FULL THROTTLE - SPEELBARE DEMO

MOTOREN! MEIDEN! MOORD!

Het ene moment zit je nog op de weg, geen vuiltje aan de lucht.
Dan komt er zo'n snelle patjepee‰r in een pak die beweert een
leuke klus voor jou en je bende te hebben. En als je met een
barstende koppijn weer bijkomt heb je een knots van een buil
op je hoofd, de politie in je nek en voel je aan je water dat
je wel eens een probleem zou kunnen hebben....


IN DE KREUKELS. IN DE BAJES. IN EN IN HELS.

Ze hebben Ben al eerder belazerd, maar deze keer hebben ze
zijn bende ook nog eens onder handen genomen, is zijn motor
total loss en daar komen ze alweer!! Denk je dat je hier
wat aan kunt doen?


KETTINGZAGEN. KOEVOETEN. KLABAKKEN.

Iedereen zit opeens achter Ben aan. Wat is-ie populair - dood
of levend! De wet moet hem hebben voor moord. Een hebzuchtige
zakenman is uit op geld.
En een mysterieuze schone zint op wraak....


WAT ZE KRIJGEN? DAT MAG JIJ UITMAKEN!

* Waanzinnige graphics, beestachtige puzzels;
  een keiharde botsing tussen actie en adventure.

* Blaas je speakers op met sublieme muziek en geluidseffecten.
  Totaal digitaal kabaal van de GONE JACKALS, de enige echte
  heavy biker-band.

* Geef gas en scheur weg met FULL THROTTLE !

Een geweldig, uniek, subliem, scheurend spel voor slechts Hfl. 79,95
MET NEDERLANDSE HANDLEIDING EN VERPAKKING!

Systeemeisen

486 DX 33 MHz, 8 Mb RAM, 256 kleuren VGA kaart (liefst
met Accelerator), harde schijf (min. 1 Mb vrij), double
speed CD-ROM speler (300 kb/s), DOS 5.0 of later.
Geluidskaarten: SoundBlaster tm (Pro/AWE32/16), Pro Audio
Spectrum tm, Ensoniq Soundscape tm, Gravis UltraSound en
compatibele kaarten.


Wat is er aan de hand?

Hier in de buurt doet een legende de ronde ... over een
gemene, stoere, hard scheurende en tuig-bestrijdende
motorrijder - over de ergste van allemaal, Ben Dinges.
Op een keer probeerde Adrian Ripburger (je kent dat slag
wel, zuipt champagne en rijdt in een limo, zo'n directie
yup) om Corley Motoren op te kopen. Dat zijn de makers
van de laatste echt ambachtelijk gebouwde motoren.
Ondertussen dacht Ripburger Ben een moord in de schoenen
te kunnen schuiven. Ook lag Ben's motor nog in puin, de
politie zat hem op de hielen, zijn bende zat in de
gevangenis en zijn gezicht was te zien in "Opsporing
Verzocht".
Maar de moed is Ben niet in de schoenen gezonken - en dat
moet jou ook niet gebeuren wanneer je Ben helpt om ‚‚n van
zijn meer wat ruigere avonturen te overleven. Baan je een
weg door rivaliserende motorbendes zoals de Rottwheelers
(Rottwielers), Vultures (Aasgieren) en de Cavefish
(Grotvissen). Spring over gapende kloven en voer pittige
gesprekken met slonzige mooi-weer- rijders. Spring op je
motor, leg wat rubber op het asfalt en laat je vijanden
achter met stof in hun ogen en grind tussen de tanden.

Maar motorrijden en als een razende tekeer gaan zijn niet
de enige zaken die Ben tot een geweldige motorrijder hebben
gemaakt - Ben heeft ook nog hersens. Af en toe zul je in
een situatie belanden waar bruut geweld gewoon niet werkt.
Wees geduldig, bedrieg en steel - pardon, onderhandel en
-ehh- "leen" wat spullen - en je zult je ook uit de meest
benarde situaties weten te redden. En als niets anders
helpt, schop en sla ze dan maar #%@!&.


NEDERLANDSE VERSIE
SOFTGOLD COMPUTERSPIELE GMBH & HOME SOFTWARE BENELUX BV

Internationale co”rdinatie		Kristin Dodt
Project manager Nederland		Harry van Horen
Redactie nederlandse handleiding	Gieneke Spannenburg
Vertaling handleiding			POLYLANG/Sander Rijnders
Ontwerp handleiding & verpakking	Oliver Dannat


En dan nu het woord aan de ontwerpers:

;       FULL THROTTLE (TM) DEMO  -- THE README FILE!
;       by Tim Schafer and friends
;
;       (c) 1994 LucasArts Entertainment Company.  All Rights Reserved.


A PERSONAL NOTE FROM THE DESIGNER

Why are you reading this? Play the game! It's fun! More fun than reading! 
Reading is what we did BEFORE we had CD-ROM games! I guess you're reading
this because you want to know how it all works. Or you just can't resist
opening any file called "README." Or you just like to read. Whatever.
Here it is!


TO START

Okay... put the CD in your CD-ROM drive... Wait, you must have done
that already if you're reading this file. Okay, then type "DEMO" from
the LECDEMOS directory.  It won't install much on your hard drive--
Just a few essential files. After installation is complete, you should
probably make a boot disk unless you have specifically configured
your machine to run protected-mode CD-ROM games (if you generally
run Windows and you have 8 MB of RAM or less, then you will definitely
need a boot disk).  Once you have done this and are returned to the
LucasArts Demo Launcher, choose item 2 and prepare yourself 
emotionally for a life-changing experience.  

For more detailed instructions and requirements, please see the section 
titled 'Troubleshooting' at the end of this file.

OVERVIEW OF THE DEMO

This demo consists of three interactive segments, each representing an area
and style of gameplay from FULL THROTTLE. In all three segments, you control
Ben, leader of the Polecats. The controls for each section are not all the
same, but you'll always be steering Ben through different environments,
using him to find clues, and helping him fight his way past obstacles. 


THE KICKSTAND

Ben's been tricked, knocked out, and thrown out with the garbage. This makes
him mad. He needs to catch up with his gang, but someone's taken the keys
to his bike. Help Ben make someone pay for this.

First, get Ben out of the dumpster. He'll punch the dumpster wherever you 
point the cursor and click, so just hit the right place and he'll pop out.
Now, walk Ben around. Just point and click on the ground and watch him go.
Look at the cursor. When it's over an interesting object, it either goes
"hot" (framed by red brackets) or becomes an arrow. The arrows indicate
exits. Click with an arrow, and Ben will walk that way and enter another area.
(Double-click with an arrow, and Ben will jump to the new area immediately!)

When the cursor is "hot," (for example, when the cursor is over the dumpster)
click and HOLD DOWN the mouse button. Yikes! What is that thing!? It's a
flaming tattoo! It's covered with icons. These icons represent actions Ben 
can take on the object you clicked on (the dumpster). While the tattoo is on
the screen, slide the cursor over the boot and let go. Ben should kick the
dumpster. Bring up the tattoo again, slide the cursor over the eyes, and
let go. Ben should examine the dumpster. Next, try the hand and the mouth.
This is how Ben interacts with his environment. Try different actions on 
different objects and see if you can make something interesting happen. Use
your fists on the front door of the bar. Talk to the bartender (use the
mouth.) Kick the piano. Try it all, until you find Ben's keys.


THE BIKER ROAD DUEL

This part is totally different from that last part. Forget about that part.
Now you're on the road--The Old Mine road! There are no cops here, no rules--
just bikers. Bikers who are looking for trouble.

Swerve left or right with the mouse. Select a weapon (Ben's fist or his
tire iron) by clicking the right mouse button. Use the weapon by clicking
the left mouse button. If at first you don't succeed--punch, punch again.


THE CAVEFISH HIDEOUT

The Cavefish are a nasty, antisocial, cult-like gang who live in a secret
cave off the Old Mine Road. Living underground all their lives, the Cavefish
are very sensitive to sunlight, and wear special opaque goggles that help
them navigate the road using the bumps on the center line. Ben would normally
steer clear of them, but they have something he wants--a ramp. He needs a ramp 
to jump Poyahoga gorge, and since they stole it from Ricky Myran, Ben feels 
justified in stealing it back.

When you're off your bike, this area works the same way the Kickstand area
does. You get the flaming tattoo interface and all that. But, when you're
ON your bike, you only control WHERE Ben drives. When the cursor passes over
something Ben can drive to, you'll see a big yellow road sign. Click the
mouse when you see the road sign, and Ben will ride off! Click anywhere else
on the screen, and Ben gets off his bike and walks. Walking's pretty lame,
I know, but sometimes you gotta do it.


BUY THE GAME!

It's the greatest game of all time! It's the game you bought your computer
for! It's the entire reason you were born! Go! Now! To the software store!
See that sales clerk behind the counter? The sneering one with the attitude?
Go hook his nosering with your finger, pull his face down to the counter, and
say in the lowest voice you can, "I want FULL THROTTLE... NOW." 

KEY COMMANDS

CTRL-T  Toggles text display on and off
+  Speed up text display
-  Slow down text display
]  Increase voice volume
[  Reduce voice volume
'  Increase sound effects volume
;  Reduce sound effects volume
CTRL-C, Alt-X or Alt-Q  Quit to DOS

NOTE: Pressing keys other than the ones indicated above may cause your
      the demo to lock up.

TROUBLESHOOTING

The Full Throttle Demo requires the following hardware to run properly:
- 486 Microprocessor or better recommended
- Double-speed CD-ROM drive
- 8 Megabytes of RAM
- Sound Blaster TM-compatible or Pro AudioSpectrum TM sound card
- Microsoft TM-compatible Mouse
- VL Bus or PCI Bus Video card recommended (see below)

Performance Issues

The Full Throttle Demo contains a preview of an exciting new addition to this 
genre of game in the Biker Road Duel section.  Unfortunately, this part of the 
demo may appear somewhat slow on older computers that do not have accelerated 
video hardware (a VL or PCI Local Bus video card).


Joystick Control

There  is currently NO support for joystick control in the demo.  Please use 
your mouse to control Ben.   

Boot Disk

The Full Throttle Demo runs in Protect Mode. Most computers with 8MB of RAM
will NOT be able to run the demo immediately after exiting Microsoft
Windows or with Windows-optimized startup files. If you encounter any
problems runnung the demo, please make a boot disk. You can make a boot
disk by selecting the Make Boot Disk option from the DEMO.BAT file on the
demo CD-ROM. The DEMO.BAT file is located in the LUCASART directory on the CD-ROM.

                                                    
Set Soundboard

USING "SET SOUNDBOARD" TO MANUALLY CONFIGURE YOUR SOUNDCARD:
After selecting the "Set Sound Board" option from the install program
you will be asked to choose either Express Setup or Custom Setup.
If you choose Express Setup and the install program fails to configure 
your sound board automatically, then you should choose Custom Setup. 
If you have added a new sound board to your system, or changed your sound 
board configuration, then you will need to repeat the above instructions.
From the Custom Setup Standard Menu, you can choose from the sound
standards supported by the demo and manually set the Port, IRQ, DMA,
and Stereo Reverse settings.  You can also test your configuration for
both music and sound.  In some cases, you may want to select the
Advanced Menu.  This menu allows you to select the Music and Digital
Sound standards for the demo independently of each other. This is
most useful for systems with more than one sound board, or sound boards
which support more than one standard.

SPECIAL NOTES FOR SOUND BLASTER SOUNDCARD USERS

If you have a SoundBlaster 16 or AWE 32 that is configured to use IRQ 10,
you may have a problem getting digital sound.  If this occurs, you must re-
configure your soundcard to use another available IRQ channel (2,5, or 7).
To do this, either run SBCONFIG.EXE (older SoundBlaster 16's) or DIAGNOSE.EXE
(newer SB16's and AWE32) from the directory that your soundcard's software is
installed to (usually C:\SB16).

If you have a SoundBlaster Pro or compatible with the DMA channel configured 
to 0 or 3, if will fail to be detected by our sound set-up utility.  The card
will work fine, but you muse choose 'Custom Setup' to enter the Port, IRQ, and
DMA channel manually.

SPECIAL NOTE FOR ADVANCED GRAVIS ULTRASOUND AND ULTRASOUND MAX USERS:
  This demo does not support the Advanced Gravis Ultrasound or Ultrasound 
  MAX sound cards.  We hope to fully support these cards in the final retail 
  product.
  
SPECIAL NOTE FOR ENSONIQ SOUNDSCAPE USERS:
  This demo does not support the Ensoniq Soundscape sound card. We hope to 
  fully support this card in the final retail product.

NOTE: These demos represent work in progress, and the above mentioned problems 
are expected to be resolved in the finished products.

WHERE TO REACH US OnLine:

Compuserve
Game Publishers Forum A (GO GAMAPUB)
Section 7
Or send E-Mail to ID# 75300,454

America Online
Keyword "LucasArts"
Or send E-Mail to LUCASARTS3

GEnie
Games RT (m205)
Category 27
Or send E-Mail to LUCASARTS

Internet E-Mail
75300.454@compuserve.com
Or Lucasarts3@AOL.com

Full Throttle TM and copyright LucasArts Entertainment Company.  All Rights 
Reserved.  Used Under Authorization.  The LucasArts logo is a registered 
trademark of LucasArts Entertainment Company.
